# The SprayList: A Scalable Relaxed Priority Queue

- Priority Queue with relaxed ordering semantics.
- Functionally similar to conventional concurrent non-blocking SkipList appart from 
`DeleteMin` operation
- `DeleteMin` done by spraying on SkipList, landing at height H, jumping across L length
and decending D, until reaches the bottom where it tries to pick up the `Node`.
- If failed for whatever reason (e.g. `Node` marked, contention or `Node` is a padding 
`Node`, retry spray.
- Proved that high probabilities `DeleteMin` return an element among the first 
O(p log^3 p) where p is the number of threads.
- Proved that high probabilities, `DeleteMin` will retrun in O(log^3 p) regardless of 
SkipList size.
- unlike traditional SkipList that randomly starts at the left-most `Node` clashing on the 
first element of each level, SparyList allows `Node` to be skip ahead, reducing contention. 

## Algorithm
- The idea is to have operation transverse the SkipList `Node`s at a controlled random motion
- Generally for a SkipList probablity of a `Node` appearing at a level `l` is `2^-l` or 1/2^l`
- each level is a LinkedList
- levels are there so search resembles O(log) instead of O(n) like linked list
- levels serves as lock-striding during contention
- `Node` must present at most bottom layer
- `Node` deleted are marked (pointer marking) and later removes through some means
- `Node` are ordered typically left to right representing small to large respectively or 
whatever orderly semantics
- search operation does clean up as well i.e. removing pointers / references of marked `Node`s
to their predecessor and successors.
- if we `Node` being marked half way through, restart again (it means someone beats us to it)
- insert of `Node` is done at random height 


| No | Controlled Random Motion |  Description |
|--- |------------------------- | -------------- |
| 1. | Start at some Height (h) |  |
| 2. | At level (l) definied by height (h), jump forward a random number of steps | |
| 3. | Transverse `Node`s at that level | |
| 4. | Decend a number of levels (d) |  |
| 5. | Repeat until reach the bottom most level `Node` | |
| 6. | At the bottom find the actual `Node` |  |
| 7. | If successfully found, start deletion, else retry spray or become cleaner| |


## Spray Parameters
| Parameters | Description |
| ---------- | ---------------|
|  n  | number of elements  |
|  p  | number of threads accessing |
|  H  | starting height H = log p + K |
|  L  | Jump length L = M * log^3 p |
|  D  | Level to decend D = max(1, log log p) |


Se algorithm 1 in paper (section 2.2)


### Padding
With spraying, highly unlikely to hit the first element, so fix this by padding 'padding' nodes.

Add K(p) dummy entries, if hit dummy entries, respray.


### Cleaners
Each thread that reach the bottom before respray, do a low probability coin flip to turn into 
a cleaner. Probablity of thread becoming cleaner is 1/p.


## Adapting 
thread adjust p, under high collision, increase it otherwise lower it.


```
 [ ]             
 [ ]      [ ]       [ ]

```


